---
layout: post
title: Research Meta Analysis
subtitle: Calculating Noise Levels with Free iOS Software
cover-img: /assets/img/Digimon_Adventure_2020_episode_6.jpg
tags: [report, data]
author: Jack Komaroff
---
**By Jack Komaroff**

The study can be viewed for free [here](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1002/lary.28590).

## Hypothesis and Overview
In “The Accuracy of iPhone Applications to Monitor Environmental Noise Levels”, a study by Eleanor Crossley, Phillip Brown, and Tahwinder Singh, researchers used a variety of free iOS apps to determine if they could accurately test noise levels in work environments. In this study, the null hypothesis was that free iPhone apps cannot accurately test the noise level in a work environment. The alternative hypothesis in this study is that free iPhone apps can accurately determine the noise level (in dB) in work environments. 
## Data from the Study
This study collected their own data with free, uncalibrated iPhone apps. The researchers used an iPhone 6, an old iPhone that is not difficult to acquire for a reasonable price (considering that the phone was 6.5 years old when the article was released in January 2021). Therefore, performing this experiment on your own would not be unreasonable, but nevertheless, the researchers included the dataset in their report for the reader to view and analyze. The decibel readings are the best data to collect as it is easy to compare the reading from the application to the sound level that is actually coming from the speakers. This allows one to compare the data on a graph with the same axis and intervals, thus producing an R2 value to determine the accuracy of the app. This data is very important as many workers (especially older workers) are exposed to unsafe levels of noise for prolonged periods of time. This can cause occupational hearing loss and other forms of auditory problems. In fact, the report says that “occupational hearing loss is one of the most common occupational diseases in developed countries”. Major countries such as the UK and the US have begun to mandate that businesses regularly check the noise levels in work zones to better protect workers. To perform the trials, the researchers only used nine apps that test noise levels. However, they must be free, have at least one rating, and display dB levels. Since these apps did not include calibration features (which are paid add-ons or premium app features), the data from the most accurate noise detection softwares was not included. The tested apps were still accurate, but the paid apps would have provided the most precise results as they included calibration features. This choice was made to test if lower resource businesses could still accurately test noise levels without spending extra money on the premium apps.
## Results
The researchers tested the applications with speakers that played specific decibel level sounds (25 dB, 40dB, 55 dB, 70 dB, and 85 dB) and they recorded the dB value that the apps displayed. Graphing this data, they checked the R2 values to see which application produced the data that most accurately corresponded to the true dB values that came from the speakers. This metric tells the researchers how close the app’s decibel reading was to the actual speaker decibel level; an R2 value of 1 means that it is a perfect match to the true decibel values. They also listed the individual dB values that each app produced for a specific dB level from the speakers. They found that the “NIOSH Sound Level Meter” app was the most accurate app with a R2 of 0.97, with other apps having high R2 values (average of 0.85). Therefore, the alternative hypothesis is correct and you can accurately determine noise levels with free iOS and an iPhone 6.
## Funding and Ethical Issues
According to The Laryngoscope and Wiley Online Library, the journal where this article was published, all articles are required to note any and all funding sources and conflicts of interest. For the article in question, “the authors have no funding, financial relationships, or conflicts of interest to disclose”. The article does not have a visible bias and stays neutral in discussing the issue of unsafe working conditions. They do not indicate who funded the study but considering the strict guidelines of the journal it is reasonable to trust the authors when they say that there was no conflict of interest between the goals of the researches and the goals of the funder (perhaps a for-profit company or a NGO).
It is alway important to consider the researcher's motivations in conducting a study. Were the researches motivated by the “publish or perish” phenomenon, or was this a genuine question of theirs? I personally believe that the researchers were simply trying to see if performing these important workplace health tests is possible with low quality equipment and free software. I don’t see evidence that the researchers were simply publishing for the sake of publishing. This research seems to be out of genuine concern for small businesses and developing areas who still want to test the safety of workplace environments. Additionally, this publication is not a major scientific research journal - it is a medical journal for doctors and surgeons who specialize in head and neck disorders and want to share procedures with other doctors so otolaryngologists (head and neck doctors) can better help their patients. 
